ROS 2 section [9292] (#194)
eProsima/Fast-RTPS-docs: docs/fastdds/ros2/Discovery_service/ros2_discovery_service.rst

We should see how *Listener 1* is receiving double messages while *Listener 2* is in a different
partition of *Talker 2* and so it does not listen him.

.. note::

    Once two endpoints know each other, they do not need the server network between them to
    listen to each other messages.

Compare Discovery Service with Simple Discovery
-----------------------------------------------

In order to compare the ROS2 execution using *Simple Discovery* or *Discovery Service*,
we would provide two scripts that execute a talker and many listeners and analyze the network traffic during this time.

However, this functionality are references for advance purpose
and we are going to leave its studying to the user.

*Throw many listeners in simple and service mode to get traffic info:*
* :download:`bash network traffic generator <generate_discovery_packages.bash>`

*Analyze tcpdump traces and generates the graph:*
* :download:`python3 graph generator <discovery_packets.py>`

To successfully execute these scripts,
first we must run the bash script with the argument to the *setup* path to source ROS2.
This will generate the traffic trace for simple discovery.

> Executing the same script with second argument ``SERVER`` it will generates the trace for service discovery.

Reviewer: Examples of the commands to execute the scripts would help a lot understanding what we mean here.

After both executions are done, we run the python script to generates a graph similar to the one below:

.. image:: discovery_packets.png
    :align: center

> In this graph (this is a specific examples,
> but the user can execute the scripts and watch their own results) we can easily see how the network traffic is
> reduced when using *Discovery Service*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the result of a specific example, the user can execute the scripts and watch their own results.
We can easily see how the network traffic is reduced when using *Discovery Service*.
```

> The reduction in traffic is due to avoid the network discovery structure where every node communicate
> itself and wait a response for every other node in the net.
> This creates a huge amount of traffic with big architectures.
> This reduction would increase if we increase the number of Nodes,
> making this architecture more scalable than the simple one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reduction in traffic results from avoiding every node communicating
itself and waiting a response from every other node in the net.
This creates a huge amount of traffic with big architectures.
This reduction increases as we increase the number of Nodes,
making this architecture more scalable than the simple one.
```

.. ros2-discovery-service

Use ROS2 with Fast-DDS Discovery Service
========================================

> In this section we are going to explain how to run some ROS2 examples using the Discovery Services

Reviewer 2: No first person

> In this section we are going to explain how to run some ROS2 examples using the Discovery Services

Reviewer 2: In general
```suggestion
In this section we are going to explain how to run some ROS2 examples using the Discovery Server
```

as discovery communication.
In order to get more information about the specific use of this configuration,
please check the :ref:`Discovery Service Documentation <discovery_service>`
or read the :ref:`common use cases <discovery-service-use-case>` for this configuration.

The following tutorial gathers the steps to check this functionality and learn how to use it with ROS2.

.. contents::
    :local:
    :backlinks: none

>     :depth: 2

Reviewer 2: I think it's weird to have the index in the middle of the intro

Author: This design was chosen following ROS2 tutorial designs. As the use of internal-page indexes is rare along the documentation, it does not seem as a bad option for me.

The :ref:`Simple Discovery Protocol <simple_disc_settings>` is the

> standard protocol defined in the `standard DDS <https://www.omg.org/omg-dds-portal/>`__.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
standard protocol defined in the `DDS standard <https://www.omg.org/omg-dds-portal/>`__.
```

> But it has certain known disadvantages in some scenarios:

Reviewer 2: I thinks this is a bit blunt
```suggestion
However, it has certain known disadvantages in some scenarios:
```

* It does not **Scale** efficiently, as the number of exchanged packets highly increases as new nodes are added.

> * It requires **Multicasting** capabilities, that may not work reliably in some connection cases as WiFi.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* It requires **Multicasting** capabilities, that may not work reliably in some scenarios, e.g. WiFi.
```

The **Discovery Service** provides a Client-Server Architecture that allows
the nodes to connect with each other using an intermediate server.
Each node will work as a *Client*, sharing its info with the *Discovery Server* and receiving
the discovery information from it.

> This means that the network traffic is highly reduced in big systems, and it does not require *Multicasting*.

Reviewer 2: Complete with Server v2.0 behaviour

> .. image:: ds_explanation.png

Reviewer 2: I genera, I'd rather have SVGs than png.

    :align: center

These **Discovery Servers** can be independent, duplicated or connected with each other in order to create
redundancy over the network and avoid having a *Single-Point-Of-Failure*.

In order to use this functionality, **Fast-DDS Discovery Service** can be set by parameters using
the :ref:`XML configuration for Participants <DS_setup_concepts>`.

However, Fast DDS library provides an easier way to set a **Discovery Service** communication using
the ``fastdds`` :ref:`CLI tool <ffastddscli_cli>`
and an :ref:`environment variable <env_vars>`.

For a complete information about the actual implementation, testing and performance,

> visit this `link <https://eprosima.com/index.php/resources-all/scalability/fast-rtps-discovery-mechanisms-analysis>`__

Reviewer 2: This 3 paragraphs look disconnected. Considere merging them. Furthermore, I think some more explanation and maybe some redundancy figures would be appreciated

> visit this `link <https://eprosima.com/index.php/resources-all/scalability/fast-rtps-discovery-mechanisms-analysis>`__

Reviewer 2: This paper refers to v1.0

Prerequisites
-------------

This tutorial assumes you have a `working ROS 2 installation <https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Installation/>`__.

> In case your installation is using a Fast DDS version lower than v2.1.0, you could not use the ``fastdds`` tool.

Reviewer 2: CLI is coming on v2.0.2 as well. Besides, Foxy from source already has this tool

You could update your repository to use a different Fast DDS version,
or :ref:`set the discovery service by Fast-DDS XML QoS configuration <discovery_service>`.

The ``talker-listener`` ROS2 demo allows to create a *talker* node that publishes a *Hello World* message every second,
and a *listener* node that listens to these messages.

Run the demo
------------

`Sourcing ROS 2 <https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Tutorials/Configuring-ROS2-Environment/>`__
you will get access to the CLI of Fast DDS library CLI tool ``fastdds``.
From this CLI we have access to the :ref:`discovery tool <cli_discovery>`,
which allows to launch a server. This server will manage the discovery process for the nodes that connect to it.

> .. note::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. important::
```

    Do not forget to `source ROS 2 <https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Tutorials/Configuring-ROS2-Environment/>`__

>     in every new terminal you open.

Reviewer 2: Better use reported speech

Author: This again comes from the use of speech in ROS 2 Index Tutorials. However, I do not see this speech use as a problem.

Setup Discovery Service
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Start by launching a server with id 0, with port 11811 and listening on all available interfaces.

Open a new terminal and run:

.. code-block:: console

    fastdds discovery -i 0

Launch node listener
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Execute the listener demo, that will listen in ``/chatter`` topic.

In a new terminal, set the environment variable ``ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER`` to use *Discovery Service*.

> (Do not forget to source ROS2 in every new terminal)

Reviewer 2: We may want to write the source command instead of the reminder

Author: That is what the block below does. This sentence is more like a title than an execution.

to change the node's name for future purpose.

.. code-block:: console

    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp listener --ros-args --remap __node:=listener_discovery_service

This process will create a ROS2 node, that will automatically create a client for the *Discovery Service*
and use the server created previously to run the discovery protocol.

Launch node talker
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Open a new terminal and set the environment variable as before, so the node raises a client for the discovery protocol.

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER=127.0.0.1:11811
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp talker --ros-args --remap __node:=talker_discovery_service

Now, we should see the talker publishing *Hello World* messages, and the listener receiving these messages.

Demonstrate Discovery Service execution
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

So far, we cannot prove that this example and the standard talker-listener example run differently.

For this purpose, we are going to run another node that is not connected to our Discovery Server.
We just need to run a new listener (listening in ``/chatter`` topic by default) in a new terminal and check that it is

> not connected to the talker already running.

Reviewer 2: Merge this 2 paragraphs

.. code-block:: console

    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp listener --ros-args --remap __node:=simple_listener

In this case, we should not see the listener receiving the messages.

To finally verify that we are running everything correctly, we can create a new talker using the
*simple discovery protocol*.

.. code-block:: console

    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp talker --ros-args --remap __node:=simple_talker

Now we should see the listener *simple_listener* receiving the messages from *simple_talker* but not the other
messages from *talker_discovery_service*.

The tool ``rqt_graph`` can be used to verify the nodes and structure of this example.
Remember, to use the ``rqt_graph`` with the *Discovery Service Protocol*
(i.e., to see the ``listener/talker_discovery_service``)

> the environment variable ``ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER`` must be set beforehand.

Reviewer 2: Snippet please

Advance user cases
------------------

> 

Reviewer 2: Avoid two titles in a row. Write a small intro here and maybe and index

Server Redundancy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Using the Fast DDS tool, we can create several servers, and we can connect each of our nodes to as many

> servers as we want. This allows to have a save redundancy network that will work even if some servers or

Reviewer 2: I guess you mean
```suggestion
servers as we want. This allows to have a safe redundancy network that will work even if some servers or
```

nodes shut down unexpectedly.

Next schema shows a simple architecture that will work with server redundancy:

.. image:: ds_redundancy_example.png
    :align: center

In different terminals, run the next code to establish a communication over a backup server.

.. code-block:: console

    fastdds discovery -i 0 -l 127.0.0.1 -p 11811

.. code-block:: console

    fastdds discovery -i 1 -l 127.0.0.1 -p 11888

``-i N`` means server with id N. When referencing the servers with ``ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER``,
server ``0`` must be in first place and server ``1`` in second place.

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811;127.0.0.1:11888"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp talker --ros-args --remap __node:=talker

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811;127.0.0.1:11888"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp listener --ros-args --remap __node:=listener

Now, if one of these servers fails, we would still have discovery communication between nodes.

.. note::

>     Be aware that to successfully raise a new node, all the servers that this node will connect with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Beware that to successfully raise a new node, all the servers that this node will connect with
```

>     Be aware that to successfully raise a new node, all the servers that this node will connect with

Reviewer 2: Do not end subordinate clause in preposition

>     must be running at the time we create it.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure I understand this sentence

Author: Issue of the DS v1. Already erased.

Backup Server
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Fast DDS* Discovery Service allows to easily build a server with a **backup** functionality.
This allows the server to retake the last state it saved in case of a shutdown.

.. image:: ds_backup_example.png
    :align: center

In different terminals, run the next code to establish a communication over a backup server.

.. code-block:: console

    fastdds discovery -i 0 -l 127.0.0.1 -p 11811 -b

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp talker --ros-args --remap __node:=talker

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp listener --ros-args --remap __node:=listener

> We will see how a ``SQLite`` database is created in the path we have run the server.

Reviewer 2: We'll need to update this with the new backup

Discovery partitions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The **Discovery Service** communication could be used with different servers to split in virtual partitions the
discovery info.
This means that two endpoints only would know each other if there is a server or a server network between them.

We are going to execute an example with two different servers. The following image shows an
schema of the architecture desired:

.. image:: ds_partition_example.png
    :align: center

With this schema, we are going to see how *Listener 1* is connected to *Talker 1* and *Talker 2*, but *Listener 2* will
only listen to *Talker 1*.

We run the first server listening in localhost in default port 11811.

> 

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure this is clear enough

.. code-block:: console

    fastdds discovery -i 1 -l 127.0.0.1 -p 11888

Now we run each node in a different terminal. Using the *environment variable* ``ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER`` we decide which
server they are connected to. Be aware that the `ids must match
<https://fast-dds.docs.eprosima.com/en/latest/fastdds/env_vars/env_vars.html>`__.

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811;127.0.0.1:11888"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp talker --ros-args --remap __node:=talker_1

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811;127.0.0.1:11888"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp listener --ros-args --remap __node:=listener_1

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp talker --ros-args --remap __node:=talker_2

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER=";127.0.0.1:11888"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp listener --ros-args --remap __node:=listener_2

We should see how *Listener 1* is receiving double messages while *Listener 2* is in a different partition of *Talker 2*

> and so it does not listen him.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and so it does not listen it.
```

.. note::

    Once two endpoints know each other, they do not need the server network between them to
    listen to each other messages.

> Compare Discovery Service with Simple Discovery

Reviewer 2: I think this is a great idea, but I'd re-work the text to it looks better on the browser
